# MasterCard and the Russian Standard Bank launch the first MoneySend platform in Europe

MasterCard Marks First European MoneySend Implementation
Russian Standard Bank becomes the first bank in Europe to provide a MoneySend Person to Person Remittance Service
Waterloo (Belgium) and Moscow (Russia), 6 December 2010
– The Russian Standard Bank has announced today (6 December) that it will be the first European Bank to provide a person-to-person domestic remittance service through the MasterCard MoneySend™ platform.
The programme, launched as part of the bank’s RS-Express customer service package, will open up the world of card-to-card payments for its banking customers. Cardholders of the banks’ MasterCard® and Maestro® branded card portfolio will be able to send money directly to fellow RSB cardholder customers and other MasterCard and Maestro branded cardholders from other banks in Russia – the first MasterCard person-to-person card-based remittance service in the country. In addition with RSB opening the MoneySend service on its ATMs throughout Russia, the service will also be available to virtually all Russian MasterCard and Maestro cardholders, subject to bank approval of the transaction.
“We’ve already seen our MoneySend platform leveraged in both the USA and our Asian-Pacific region but I am particularly delighted that today, with our partners from the Russia Standard Bank, we can mark the first European implementation of our MoneySend platform”, said Ilya Riaby, General Manager Russia, MasterCard Worldwide.
“To ensure we could meet the specific needs of the Russian market, a totally new funding transaction type was designed, approved and implemented by MasterCard within four months. Such a service will greatly expand opportunities for cardholders in the country, particularly as we look to extend the service from domestic to international transfers between cardholders in Russia and those in other countries”.
How MoneySend works
To make a transfer of money from one person to another, the RSB cardholder need only know the number of the MasterCard or Maestro card of the person to whom the money will be sent, with the transfer request made at any one of the RSB ATM’s or via the RSB internet and mobile banking platform, providing a 24/7 service. The maximum amount for an ATM transaction is 15,000 rubles and 5,000 rubles for an internet or mobile bank transfer.
Speaking on behalf of the Russian Standard Bank, Kamal Boushi, Executive Director of Acquiring and Strategic Initiatives said; “As the largest bank card issuer in the country and as a bank seeking to maximize the development of high-tech and convenient services to customers, we are very pleased to be able to offer the MoneySend service. It represents more-a simple and reliable way to transfer money to relatives and friends at any time – a considerable new and effective service for our customers”.
The MasterCard MoneySend Platform
MasterCard MoneySend is a platform that leverages the MasterCard Worldwide Network enabling issuers to offer their cardholders a fast, convenient, and reliable way to transfer money, both domestically and cross-border through multiple channels including – ATM, Internet, branch and phone (including mobile phone).
Money transfers are growing significantly, and present a significant opportunity for many issuers. In July 2010, person-to-person, cross-border money transfers were recorded at $440 Billion (USD) by the World Bank. Russia represents a substantial market for both domestic and cross-border money transfers. For instance, according to the Bank of Russia, Money transfers for this year (up to the end of September 2010) from Russia in favor of resident and nonresident individuals made via credit institutions including remittances via money transfer operators, were USD 29.4bn, making Russia the leading outbound market in Europe.
MasterCard MoneySend offers financial institutions a platform that addresses concerns about the cost, security and reliability of current options that are available and is delivered through the MasterCard trusted, established and robust payment network. It will give cardholders the ability to make transfers domestically and cross-border through their participating bank.
MasterCard MoneySend allows issuers, subject to their pricing strategies, to offer their cardholders a fast, convenient and affordable way to transfer funds to each other.
Speed: The transaction is authorized and completed within seconds. If the recipient is receiving the funds on his MasterCard and Maestro card, it will typically take one to three banking days from the date of transaction, depending on the policy and/or capability of the issuer.
Convenience: The MoneySend platform gives issuers and the opportunity to offer their cardholders multiple disbursement and access channels with the ability to send and receive funds when, where and how they prefer.
Security: MoneySend transactions are made through a trusted and established and robust payment network.
About MasterCard Worldwide
As a leading global payments company, MasterCard Worldwide prides itself on being at the heart of commerce, helping to make life easier and more efficient for everyone, everywhere. MasterCard serves as a franchisor, processor and advisor to the payments industry, and makes commerce happen by providing a critical economic link among financial institutions, governments, businesses, merchants, and cardholders worldwide. In 2009, $2.5 trillion in gross dollar volume was generated on its products by consumers around the world. Powered by the MasterCard Worldwide Network – the fastest payment processing network in the world – MasterCard processes over 22 billion transactions each year, has the capacity to handle 140 million transactions per hour, with an average network response time of 140 milliseconds and with 99.99 percent reliability. MasterCard advances global commerce through its family of brands, including MasterCard®, Maestro®, and Cirrus®; its suite of core products such as credit, debit, and prepaid; and its innovative platforms and functionalities, such as MasterCard PayPass™ and MasterCard inControl™. MasterCard serves consumers, governments, and businesses in more than 210 countries and territories.
